
Adele was the headline act on Saturday at the Glastonbury Festival
Adele's 25 has shot back to the top of the album chart after experiencing a 231% sales surge following her headline appearance at the Glastonbury Festival.
Her third album's long-awaited release on streaming services has also helped it claim a 13th week at number one.
In the singles chart, Drake's continued dominance saw One Dance become the third longest-running number one ever.
Only Bryan Adams and Wet Wet Wet have spent more consecutive weeks in the top spot than the Canadian rapper.
Adams' (Everything I Do) I Do It For You spent 16 consecutive weeks at number one in 1991, while Wet Wet Wet enjoyed a 15-week reign with Love Is All Around in 1994.
One Dance, already the longest-running UK number one single of the digital era, has now spent 12 straight weeks fending off all comers.

Coldplay were another of the headline acts at last weekend's music extravaganza
Drake has more cause to celebrate thanks to Too Good, his collaboration with Rihanna, which rose two places this week to number three.
French producer Kungs came between Drake's two top five tracks. Kungs' remix of Cookin' On Three Burners' 2009 track This Girl held steady at two.
Rihanna made another appearance at four with her Calvin Harris collaboration This Is What You Came For, while Justin Timberlake's Can't Stop the Feeling dropped two places to five.
Adele sat just beneath him in this week's countdown, with her her Send My Love (To Your New Lover) track jumping nine places to make its Top 10 debut at six.
Top five singles
1) Drake ft Wizkid and Kyla	One Dance
2) Kungs vs Cookin' on Three Burners	This Girl
3) Drake ft Rihanna	Too Good
4) Calvin Harris ft Rihanna	This Is What You Came For
5) Justin Timberlake	Can't Stop the Feeling
Source: Official Charts Company	
In the album chart, two other acts experienced a sales boost off the back of their high-profile appearances at Glastonbury.
Coldplay, who closed the event on Sunday night, saw their A Head Full of Dreams album climb three places to two.
ELO's greatest hits compilation All Over the World, meanwhile, climbed four places to three following Jeff Lynne's appearance in the festival's Sunday afternoon "legends" slot.
Rick Astley's 50 dropped a place to number four, while Beyonce's Lemonade album jumped five places to number five.
Neil Young's environmentally-themed live album Earth was this week's highest new entry, making its chart debut at 14.
Top five albums
1) Adele	25
2) Coldplay	A Head Full of Dreams
3) ELO	All Over the World - The Very Best of
4) Rick Astley	50
5) Beyonce	Lemonade
Source: Official Charts Company	


