
Captain America: Civil War had the fifth biggest opening weekend in US box office history when it was released in May
A statue of the Marvel superhero Captain America is to be erected in a New York park.
The company has commissioned a 13-ft (3.96m) bronze statue which will be housed in Prospect Park in Brooklyn.
It will be unveiled at the San Diego Comic Con later this month before being placed in the park from 10 August.
A sketch of the statue released by Marvel shows the character holding his signature shield in the air.
Marvel's senior vice-president of licensing, Paul Gitter, told USA Today the pose was "symbolically chosen to showcase the impressive strength of Captain America and his stoic form".
The figure will also bear the superhero's quote "I'm just a kid from Brooklyn" - said in the 2011 film Captain America: The First Avenger.
However, some fans have pointed out the original comic book character was actually from Manhattan's Lower East Side.
In the comics, the superhero was the son of Irish immigrants - a similar background to that of co-creator Jack Kirby, who was the son of Austrian-Jewish immigrants living in the same area.

Marvel has issued a sketch of how the statue will look
Nicholas Slayton tweeted: "Come on guys, Cap's from the Lower East Side, not Brooklyn."
Ronald Pollock wrote: "Kind of weird how there's going to be a Captain America statue in Brooklyn but Jack Kirby originally had him born in the Lower East Side."
But writing for pop culture website The Mary Sue, Teresa Jusino said film fans would consider Brooklyn the character's home.
"In the [Marvel Cinematic Universe], Captain America's Lower East Side childhood has been erased in favour of a Brooklyn upbringing," she wrote.
"For many who haven't read the comics, that's the Cap they know. So, it makes a certain amount of sense that this statue would appeal to those people, rather than to comics fans."
Earlier this year, Captain America: Civil War took $181.8m (£139.9m) at the US box office on its first weekend of release - the fifth biggest opening weekend of all time.
, or email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.


